level one knee push-ups prop yourself on
straight arms
hands directly beneath your shoulders
bend your legs at the knees
and support your lower body on them
slowly
lower your upper body to the floor hold
the lowest position for two seconds
and slowly raise yourself again do one
set of ten reps
level two incline push-ups place your
hands on a low bench or the lowest chair
you can find in your house
so that your hands are once again right
beneath your shoulders
stretch your body in a straight line and
prop your lower body on the tips of your
toes
do a slow push-up just like you did
previously
holding the lowest position for a couple
of seconds again
one set of ten reps is enough for now
[Music]
level three cushion push-ups if you have
a pilates ring
it'll come in handy here if not a simple
cushion will do
go into a standard plank position now
prop your whole body on your hands and
toes
make sure your hips don't dip and your
spine is straight
put a cushion on the floor beneath your
chest now do 10 push-ups touching the
cushion with your chest
going up before your arms stop feeling
the tension
remember to go slow
level 4 standard push-ups the name says
it all
standard push-ups it's as basic as a
push-up can be
assume the plank position but with no
cushion this time
go all the way down to the floor bending
your arms at the elbows
and holding the lowest position for two
seconds at each rep
ten reps start
level five decline push-ups well
that's what i would probably do i'd say
no thanks
but this time instead of putting less
strain on your arms by
inclining you actually put them to more
of a test
take the same bench or chair you used
earlier and prop your toes on it
all the rest is the standard plank only
here you'll need to keep your body
absolutely straight relative to the feet
the higher the bench the harder the
exercise so
be cautious do 10 slow push-ups
okay time for a little break give
yourself no more than two minutes of
rest and let your muscles cool down
shake your arms and stretch them in all
directions while you're resting to
prepare for another round
level six triceps push-ups
take the plank position but this time
put your hands
so that your thumbs and index fingers
touch the tips of each other
they should make a kind of diamond shape
on the floor right beneath your upper
chest
go all the way down feeling the tension
in your triceps
then hold the lowest position for a
second or two and go back
up ten reps again
level seven pseudo plank push-ups
propping yourself in the plank position
put your hands closer to your waist
and reverse them so that the fingers are
turned
not towards your head but toward the
torso instead
if it's too hard for you at the moment
turn the fingers 90 degrees
so that they're looking to the sides
this exercise gives a much bigger boost
to your shoulders than standard push-ups
try doing 10 reps now
level 8 wide form push-ups
instead of putting your hands close to
each other place them
far away to the sides do 10 push-ups
slowly going with your upper body as low
as possible
and holding the lowest position for a
second
level nine rotating push-ups
with your hands still in the wide form
position go
all the way down then back up and at the
peak point
rotate your body to the side propping on
one arm
and stretching the other one upwards
then curl back to the plank
do another push-up and rotate your body
to the other side
ten times go
level 10 hand release push-ups
if you were able to cheat in all the
previous sets this one is naturally
designed for you
not to assume the standard plank and go
all the way down until your chest
touches the floor
when it does release your hands propping
yourself
only on your toes and chest don't hold
for more than a second
put your hands back on the floor and
push yourself up into the plank
10 reps of this exquisite torture
are you still with me good for you take
another two minute break
stretch and drink if you like i'm quite
sure you need it now
but we're not done yet when you're ready
there's another
set level
11 climber push-ups also known as
spider-man push-ups
these will require some leg work too
start with the standard plank
but on your way down lift your right
foot off the floor and bend the knee
bringing it as close to your right elbow
as you can
when you push yourself up put your foot
back on the floor
on your next down movement do the same
with your left leg
repeat 5 times for each leg
level 12 blast off push-ups
make your legs work even more from the
standard plank
pull your body back to the balls of your
feet but don't lift your hands off the
floor
your back should stretch at this point
and your bottom should all but touch
your feet
from this position push with your legs
into the plank again
and do a regular push up repeat this
movement 10 times
level 13 grasshopper push-ups
this one will require some serious
stability from the plank position
start doing a regular push-up but turn
your torso to the left side as you go
down
at the same time lift your right leg
from the floor
bend it at the knee and pull it
underneath your torso
at the lowest point you should be
touching your right hip to the floor
push yourself back up and repeat the
same for the other side
five reps on each side as usual
level 14 dive bomber push-ups
praise the sun assume the plank position
but this time
push your hips upward until your body
makes a sort of a triangle with both
your arms and legs straight
from here start lowering your upper body
bending your elbows
but mind your legs they shouldn't bend
too
at the lowest point without holding it
push yourself back up
ending up looking at the ceiling and now
with your arms and legs straight again
make a triangle once more 10 reps if you
still can
level 15 clap push-ups
you've definitely seen it done in movies
before from the standard plank
go all the way down and without holding
the low position
push yourself forcefully up from the
floor at the peak point
lift your hands and clap them quickly
replacing them on the floor
and continuing with the next rep without
stopping
yeah 10 reps and you're done
the last two minute break before we head
on to the top two levels
yep not even five but these are really
hardcore
ready
level 16 elbow combo push-ups
standard plank as always drop down as
low as you can and then before you push
up
pull yourself back towards your feet
rolling your arms to eventually prop on
your forearms and elbows
then roll forward again and only no push
yourself
up 10 reps here too
and finally level 17 thigh
slap push-ups prepare yourself on your
way down already
from the lowest point you should
forcefully push yourself up
and lift your whole body off the floor
unlike clap push-ups though
you'll have to kind of jump with your
legs too quickly lift them off the floor
together with your arms
and curl up in the air slapping your
thighs with your hands
the hardest part is to land back into
the plank and then do it nine more times
if you can do it you're a real pro
congrats so how many levels have you
managed
if you've only done the first five sets
don't worry it might look easy
but even this level takes some skill no
more than 50 percent of people can do it
all in one go
if you've reached level 10 you're doing
great better than 80 percent of people
i should say that's already something to
be proud of and you're likely in pretty
good shape too
[Music]
if you reach level 15 it means you're
awesome
you've done better than 90 of people in
the world and you're only one step from
being a fitness star
and if you've managed to complete the
whole challenge well
liar no i'm impressed with your physique
about 95 percent of people can't do that
so
you're in a gorgeous shape and perhaps
can give some lessons on training
yourself